This file documents the the changes that have been made
to smc-get between versions. It's *not* intended to serve
as a full-blown changelog, for this you have to install git
and issue a <tt>git log</tt> command in the project directory.

Bugfixes are written in <i>italic</i>, mayor changes in <b>bold</b> font.
If a change is related to a ticket
{on our issue tracker}[https://github.com/Luiji/smc-get/issues],
the corresponding ticket is given in square brackets [ and ].

== 0.2.0-beta2

* <i>Added missing dependency tracking [#3]</i>
* <i>Fixed startup crash on permission error.</i>

== 0.2.0-beta1

* <b>Added a completely new SMC package format: smcpak. These are XZ-compressed
  tarballs allowing for easy deployment of packages. See the smcpak.rdoc file
  for further information.</b>
* <b>Rewrote nearly the full API. This release is 100%
  incompatible with anything released so far.</b>
* <b>New classes LocalRepository and RemoteRepository for
  managing downloads and installations.</b>
* <b><tt>smc-get list</tt> without arguments works a little different now. 
  Instead of showing the installation time of a package it now shows the
  time of the last update, which allows you to better keep track of
  what is out of date.</b>
* <b>Added <tt>smc-get update</tt> for a fully automated update of all (or
  selected) installed packages.</b>
* <b>Added <tt>smc-get build</tt> to automatically build SMC packages either
  interactively or as an automated process.</b>
* Added modification detection via SHA1 checksums.
* New dependency on the {ruby-xz gem}[http://rubygems.org/gems/ruby-xz].
* New dependency on the {minitar gem}[http://rubygems.org/gems/minitar].
* New dependency on liblzma[http://tukaani.org/xz/].
* Official bugtracker is now at GitHub: https://github.com/Luiji/smc-get/issues.
* Added this file (HISTORY.rdoc) for collecting change information.

