= SMC-GET -- level repository manager for Secret Maryo Chronicles
smc-get - Library and command-line for managing SMC level packages.

Author::      Luiji Maryo (mailto:luiji@users.sourceforge.net)
Contributor:: Marvin Gülker (mailto:sutniuq@gmx.net)
Copyright::   Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Entertaining Software, Inc.
Copyright::   Copyright (C) 2011 Marvin Gülker
License::     GNU General Public License (see COPYING)

= Synopsis for use as a command-line tool
  smc-get install mypackage
  smc-get uninstall mypackage
  smc-get help

= Synopsis for use as a library
  require 'smc_get'
  # Initialize the library
  SmcGet.setup
  
  # Bind to local and remote repositories
  rr = SmcGet::RemoteRepository.new("http://example.org/smc-repo")
  lr = SmcGet::LocalRepository.new("/usr/share/smc")
  
  # Get a package
  path = rr.fetch_package("mypackage")
  pkg = SmcGet::Package.from_file(pkg)
  
  # Install it!
  lr.install(pkg)
  
  #...or remove it.
  lr.uninstall("mypackage")

= Description
smc-get is a library and command-line tool for installing, uninstalling, etc.
level packages from the Secret Maryo Chronicles Contributed Levels Repository.

== Prototype Notice

This program is a prototype for functionality that will eventually be merged
with Secret Maryo Chronicles. It is subject to change and should not be used
for anything other then testing.

= Usage

== Using it as a command-line
smc-get's main purpose is to be used as a command-line utility.  It should be
executed in the syntax:
 smc-get COMMAND [PARAMETERS...]
Where <tt>COMMAND</tt> is the command and <tt>PARAMATERS...</tt> are the
parameters for that command.

To get help on the various commands, use the help command.
  smc-get help [COMMAND]
Ommit the +COMMAND+ if you want general usage information.

=== Configuration file
smc-get requires a configuration file when used as a commandline tool.
By default it searches for <tt>smc-get.yml</tt> in the <b>config/</b>
subdirectory of your smc-get installation, then for <tt>smc-get-conf.yml</tt>
in the user's home directory and then for the file specified via the <tt>-c</tt>
commandline switch, if existant. Values set in later evaluated configuration
files override those in prevously evaluated ones; see
  smc-get help
for more explanation. If you want to use the CUI from your scripts, you
can specify a config file via <tt>-c</tt>, but make sure it contains all
possible options, otherwise those in the global or user-level config files
may affect your program. See below for an example.

Be careful when using +sudo+, because it changes the environment variables.
smc-get may not find your user-level configuration file when using sudo,
because it derives the path from the +USER+ environment variable which may
get set to +root+ when using +sudo+.

In the configuration file you can set some general options, look into
the file which is quite self-explanatory. A sample configuration may
look like this:
  data_directory: "/usr/local/share/smc"
  repo_url: "ftp://ftp.example.org/smc

== Using it as a library
smc-get, although mainly targetted at being a command-line utility, may also be
used as a library.  This is useful when, for instance, creating a GUI front-end.

To initialize the library, call SmcGet.setup which will do some basic initialization
needed for use of the library.
  SmcGet.setup
For interacting with the SMC repository, smc-get exposes an object-oriented API
centered around the Package and repository classes. Before you can do anything,
you have to "establish" connections to a remote and a local repository, where
remote repositories are repositories where <tt>smc-get</tt> downloads from,
and local repositories are repositories where <tt>smc-get</tt> installs
into, i.e. usually your SMC installation. You can use multiple repositories
if you know how to manage it.

  rr = SmcGet::RemoteRepository.new("http://example.org/smc-repo")
  lr = SmcGet::LocalRepository.new("/usr/local/share/smc")

After you initialized the library
as explained above, you can query, install and uninstall packages.

  path = rr.fetch_package("mypackage")
  pkg = SmcGet::Package.from_file(path)
  lr.install(pkg)

If any of the methods fails, it will raise various exceptions.  When creating a GUI,
you should catch these exceptions and present them as message boxes.

  begin
    rr.fetch_package("mypackage")
  rescue SmcGet::Errors::NoSuchPackageError => e
    alert "No such package: #{e.package_name}!"
  end

All errors smc-get raises are subclasses of SmcGet::Errors::SmcGetError. That
means, if you rescue from this exception, you can handle all package-related
errors at once:

  begin
    lr.install(pkg)
  rescue SmcGet::Errors::SmcGetError => e
    alert e.message
  end

Furthermore, these error messages should have a pretty informative message set,
so unless you want to localize the error messages you can just reach them
through (the messages, not the whole exceptions, of course).

The configuration file only contains settings for the commandline user
interface, so you don't need it here. If you want to use the CUI from
your scripts, do
  require "smc_get"
  require "smc_get/cui"
  
  cui = SmcGet::CUI.new(ARGV)
  cui.start
The configuration file from the <b>config/</b> directory will automatically
be loaded as well as the user-level configuration file; you may specify another
configuration file by placing the appropriate option in ARGV:
  ARGV.unshift("-c")
  ARGV.unshift("YOURCONFIGFILE.yml")
  
  cui = SmcGet::CUI.new(ARGV)
  cui.start

= License

smc-get is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3 or later. For
more information, see COPYING.

= Website

This software was written by Entertaining Software, Inc. Visit us at
http://www.entertainingsoftware.com.

This software is hosted at GitHub. The project page can be found at
https://github.com/Luiji/smc-get.

This software was written for Secret Maryo Chronicles. Visit them at
http://www.secretmaryo.org.

Bugs related to this software may be reported at 
https://github.com/Luiji/smc-get/issues.